Any San Francisco public library, the old public library?
Just see if we can pick up the beep beeps here of the bar cards.
Okay, we're talking to Laurie.
How do we pronounce your name?
Laurie McEachern, right?
It's McEachern, yes.
M-C-E-A-C-H-R-O-N.
So you were just about to give me some idea.
Yeah, a brief overview of Corvus.
We were actually founded back in 1989.
The company was started by Bill Gates.
He owns the company personally.
He started it in his capacity as a private individual.
Really?
Yeah, we are a private corporation.
We have no...
no business attachment to Microsoft, which is a common confusion because he's chairman of Microsoft, which is a public company, and he's also owner of Corbus, which is a private company.
People think that they are connected.
Bill founded the company with the vision of converging technologies, the idea that entertainment and computers and television and telecommunications were all converging.
And at some point, when all the hardware issues work themselves out, that what would become important was content, was digital content, whether that be images, audio, film, video, the elements that came
to you through these hardware and telecommunications machines.
I don't believe so.
It started out very small with just three or four people researching digital content.
What is it?
How do you get it?
How do you market it?
Is there a market for it?
They were doing a lot of research into
what this new thing was.
Back in 1989, late 89, early 90, not a lot of people were thinking about it yet.
The Internet was still on the horizon.
People weren't quite sure what digital content was, and so we were doing a lot of research into that area.
The first three, four years of the company were spent in research and development, looking at software systems for managing digital content, software systems for searching.
and retrieving images very quickly.
How do you protect digital content?
What are the markets?
Who are the customers for digital content?
So we really were kind of focused internally discovering this idea of digital content and what we might be able to do with it.
Why did you establish it apart from Microsoft?
Partly because it was such an emerging area.
can't take the same kinds of risks that private companies can.
This was, you know, back then a very, very long-term kind of a project and a research and development project that really wasn't in line with Microsoft's focus on software applications.
You know, we were looking at digital content broadly and all the potential possibilities of what could be done with it.
And that was really outside the charter, I think, of that other company.
So when these archives like the Bettman Archive are acquired, basically it's Mr. Gates who's acquiring you.
It's Corbis that's acquiring it.
We're a corporation, so we acquire it.
He is the chairman of Corbis, but the Corbis Corporation acquired the Bettman Archive.
And the licensing rights to any number of other... Yeah, we have over 400 sources right now that are partnering with us, most of them non-exclusive licenses.
But as I was saying, you know, we spent some years in research and development.
About, oh, three years ago, almost three years ago now, we had collected a great resource of material.
We'd done a number of years of research in how to manage it, how to market it, how to package it.
We decided we were ready to go to the markets and begin to get some feedback from the markets.
At that point, we developed a professional licensing business.
which works very similar to a photo agency where book publishers and magazine publishers can come and license images from us to using their products.
And then we also formed a publishing business, which was targeted more at consumer audiences.
And that was where we were packaging more editorial type products, interactive documentary products on CD-ROM and selling them into consumer markets.
So those were really the two markets we identified that were
interested in digital images and that we could begin to start to emerge into those markets.
When did you release your first title?
Passion for Art was the first one, and it was released in January of 95.
So it's over a year and a half old.
That was our very first consumer product.
We also launched our professional licensing business in February, I believe, of 95.
And a professional licensing business basically is...
Somebody wanted to use a picture of Winston Churchill from the Bettman Archive.
Why are the rights to do that?
Are you doing this online?
We have a website where people can look at a catalog of images.
The archive right now is about 800,000 images in digital form with attached captioning and text and keywording information.
On our website, there's about 4,000 or 5,000.
So very, you know, kind of a slice of the archive, a selection.
that people, the public, can browse and look at and kind of get a sense of what we're about.
There's a professional side to the forum that we're just developing that would allow professional image users to access the entire collection via the website and search through more images.
But then how do you pay for that?
If I can see an image and copy it?
I don't know what prevents an individual from doing that.
I know my daughter, for instance, my 13-year-old daughter took a picture of Winston Churchill for a paper that she did.
I don't think she had to pay anything to use it, but how did she get to use that?
Right now, if you go up to the public forum, the images are encrypted and they're watermarked, so you can look at them.
But if you download them, they're going to come with a watermark on them.
They're not commercially usable.
You can use them for personal use.
Like for a paper at school.
Well, that technically is, you know, there's a gray area there on what's fair use for education.
The images that are publicly accessible are protected so that they're not commercially usable.
Because we do have a responsibility to our partners, the creative partners who created that photograph, who deserve compensation for its commercial use.
Yeah, you know, so the public forum, you know, is guarded.
The professional forum, again, you have to have a password.
You have to be a client of Corvus.
We know who you are.
We have a relationship.
We know that you understand rights issues because you're a professional image licensor.
So when you go up into the professional side, it is still an encrypted image, but it's no longer watermarked.
So you're able to look at it and use it for comp and placement purposes.
You still need to negotiate a fee and license that image if you want it in a commercially usable form.
For instance, when I gave Otto a copy of my book, which he liked very much, and he was looking through the illustrations that I acquired myself and said, these are wonderful.
He said, too bad you didn't call us.
He said, you know, we could have gotten these for you.
But I'm thinking, you know, my next book, maybe images.
So the procedure would be I would establish a professional relationship with you.
Establish a client relationship.
We would give you a password.
You could go up to the website, type in your password, and you can search the full archive and make selections and send an order to us, and then we negotiate a fee based on the use.
Based on the use.
So we're going to do it now.
Exactly.
You know, the Rosenbach Library.
Our licensing service functions very much like a stock photo agency, except that it's all digital.
We deliver it to you digitally.
And we can create a digital file that works for your pre-press needs.
So your production house, your printer, says, I need a MAC file.
I need it to be this resolution.
I need it compressed.
And you tell us that, we create a custom file for you that fits right into your production process.
There's a lot of cost savings and time savings in using digital content.
As that publishing market goes more and more towards digital, digital content will become more and more interesting to them and more and more, you know, common in use.
I should show you the file that I have just contacting libraries.
Oh, yeah.
Well, that right there is one of the benefits of Corvus because we're partnering with sources all around the world.
You have such a variety of material here.
You could come here and sign one contract with us and pay one fee and you have access to the material from over 400 sources, photographers, libraries, art museums, collections of all kinds.
It saves you the time of having to go and get an image from this library and pay another fee to this library and another fee to this photographer and go find all this yourself.
We've done that for you.
We've created an edited collection of tremendous value.
A wonderful quality.
And as we walk around, I'll show you the different areas involved.
I can see where you have a continuing contract, let's say, with a newspaper or a book publisher.
How about an individual like myself who's writing one book who doesn't really need a continuing contract?
Well, you're a professional image.
Image user, you can come and buy once from us.
You would just work with our sales staff to determine an appropriate price.
So if everything's negotiable?
It's all negotiated.
You know, what's your distribution?
How many images?
How many languages?
How long do you need the rights?
Is it a cover shot?
Is it an interior half page, quarter page?
All the same criteria.
He said, no, I mean, I had to go through all this with the British Library.
Is it for world English?
Is it for all languages?
What's the first print run?
Exactly.
All of those affect the price.
And it was, you know, and there was a scale fee.
But that's one of the reasons.
Exactly.
That's one of the reasons that we decided to enter into the licensing business is because it's a business that we could understand.
It's a business that's here today.
There's established pricing.
There's markets already developed for it.
It was something we could get our hands around.
There are markets that are going to emerge for digital content that will be very different, that nobody really knows what those markets might be.
But today, there's a market for digital images, and it's in the professional licensing area.
Will Doug have some comments on, you know, the future of books as we know them?
Absolutely.
And Curtis as well can talk to you more about kind of the vision thing.
Because I still have to keep my eye on the wall as they say when I'm writing it.
So, you know, that professional market was very important to us, but then we also realized the consumer market is really going to be very important to us.
We want people in their homes and in their libraries and in their schools to be able to access this collection.
And we started out on CD-ROM because right now there's not really a lot of connectivity into the home, high bandwidth connectivity.
You know, you're still working over a modem, and that's still very, very slow.
So today we're packaging it on CD-ROM because you can get a very high quality experience.
and people can really enjoy the material.
As we emerge, as the technologies advance, we'll begin doing CD-ROMs with online connections, and then eventually products that are designed and developed entirely for an online environment.
But that's really dependent on how soon technology improves.
But today we're delivering on CD-ROM to consumers, a very editorialized product.
We take the images, we tell a story with them.
lay them out with audio and music and we tell a story and we hand it to you on CD-ROM.
Someday in the future, you're going to log in and tell your own story and you'll be combining elements that interest you and you'll be having an experience online.
But we needed to emerge into that market and begin to speak to consumers and let them know who we were and let them know the quality of the material we had.
And so we did that on CD-ROM initially.
And we had great- I have to tell you that, you know, name recognition for quality.
They're important, particularly in consumer markets.
And that's something that we've really, I think, had a great success with.
All four of our existing titles have won awards.
Can you break down on that?
Oh, sure, sure.
I've got a list of the numerous awards that we've won.
Great critical acclaim.
They're selling very well in bookstores, in museum gift stores, in software stores.
We're in a lot of alternative channels where you don't normally find software.
You wouldn't think to go to a museum store and find a CD-ROM, but you are.
Exactly, exactly.
And I have to say, going through that,
The index shows a little.
The little thumbnail.
Curtis invented that.
That's brilliant.
And the fact that you can do details and zoom in on the details.
Exactly.
Because I've got a super high resolution screen.
But that was something very important to us, was to create those kinds of experiences that were very, very well done, very high production quality standards on these products.
And really try and build a reputation for fine products, attractively priced.
and available broadly in in many many places not just in software stores but you know other other channels as well do you have goals for a number of titles per year or is this not hard goals we expect to do anywhere between maybe you know two to five titles per year just depending on how things work out and you know we have two internal development teams which i'll show you later this morning that work on that so there's
You know, it just depends, but not a huge number of titles per year.
We want to do very high-quality work in just a few.
And how many people employ that core results?
We have probably all told somewhere between 200 and 250.
We have about 130 here in Bellevue.
We've got close to 100 in New York and then another 30 or so in London.
And what did the 100 in New York do?
They're focused on commercial licensing of images.
It's based in the Bettman offices, so they're doing a lot of licensing there.
They're also beginning to scan some of the Bettman collection and move it into the digital archive as well.
So the technical stuff largely is done here?
Most of the scanning is done here and in London, and I'll show you the scanning labs as we go through.
I'm going to London for some more big stuff.
Oh, absolutely.
The London office, we started actually early on as a production facility because many of the collections we were working with were in Europe, and rather than try and ship them transatlantic and all the hassles involved in that, we found it real favorable to have a production facility in Europe so we could do the scanning there.
So when I get to see a production facility, is it something that would be good for me to take pictures of?
It's probably the most high-tech
looking stuff you'll see here.
Most of what you'll see is little offices like this.
So it's probably nothing that's really going to be that sexy for pictures.
It's okay.
You're welcome to check it out and see.
I won't be needing a computer for anything.
I just didn't want to leave it out in the car.
I didn't want to leave it in the hotel room.
Please, before leave today.
And the coffee machine is back here.
Just give me that piece again about everybody is a potential client.
Anyone who's using images is a potential client for us.
Everyone from book and magazine publishers,
Newspapers, graphic design, ad agencies, CD-ROM producers, web publishers, anybody that's professionally using images is a potential client for our archive.
We have such a broad spectrum of content.
We have interest in a lot of, you know, these markets can find material here that is very interesting.
And as they're starting, what time are they?
6 a.m.
to 6 p.m.
West Coast time.
We also have a sales office in New York and a sales office in London, so we are in multiple time zones.
In the major time zones.
These guys will work with a client on the phone.
Currently, say a book publisher calls up, they're doing a book
on Africa, and the sales representative will talk with them and be pulling up images on their computer screen about Africa, the animals, the art, the people, the geography, any images we might have on that topic, and then they'll press a custom CD-ROM catalog of just those images that are interesting to the client, send it to them overnight.
Now the client can look at those images, can print them out for placement purposes, they can show them to their office workers, they make their decision,
And they call back and they say, we want this one, this one, and this one.
This is the use.
They negotiate a fee, and then they tell us what format they need the images in.
We cut a custom CD with the final high-resolution images and send them overnight.
And as technologies advance and as more and more publishers get high bandwidth connection, we're actually starting to do a lot of this on the Internet where the publishers will...
be able to call up and the researcher will post the search results to the Internet and allow that client through that password form that we talked about to go up and look at the selections online rather than waiting for a CD.
And then they make their selections, negotiate the fee, and the high-risk files are delivered on CD-ROM.
Or if they have the bandwidth, we can deliver them via the online.
What we found is that while we have
T1 or better bandwidth outbound, a lot of our clients still don't have it.
They're trying to download over a modem.
And if you try and download a high-resolution file over even a 28.8 modem, it could take days.
It's just not commercially viable.
I had 25 newspaper clients that take a bi-weekly column.
And would you believe, I mean, like Salt Lake City, for instance, is still on a 300-bod model.
It's just not.
Four minutes to do a thousand-word column.
Yeah, imagine a 30-megabyte file.
Yeah, it's amazing.
You know, so today we're still finding that a lot of clients want their delivery to come on CD-ROM.
It's just quicker.
It's the overnight express.
They've got it.
They can, you know, deal with it right away.
This is an area of the company that's really starting to ramp up.
The business here is really only about a year and a half old.
So we're just starting to get known in the industry.
We've done a series of ad campaigns.
We've done several direct mail efforts.
And so we're starting to really, you know, kind of hit our stride in this market.
Is the company profitable yet?
Well, you know, we don't disclose revenues or figures of that sort because we're a private company.
We're private.
I will say that, you know, it's certainly our intent that these businesses succeed, and part of that success is being a profitable enterprise.
But you should probably talk more with Doug about that.
We can't really, you know, give you the specifics.
No, I understand.
A private company is a private company.
Yeah, but these guys have a lot of varied backgrounds, a lot of direct sales, a lot of stock photo agency backgrounds, marketing backgrounds.
Is the entire Betman archive
Oh, heavens no, and it probably never will be.
Probably never will be.
You know, they've got between 16 and 20 million images.
They don't even know what they have.
Their core collection, the collection that they... There's Otto's collection, and then the UPI one... But I mean, of the 16 or 17, the collection that they use commercially is really only about 300,000 images out of the whole... Which is a lot, actually.
That's a lot, but that's what they use.
So we're going to start working with them, and we have already started working with them.
to look at those 300,000 and see which of those need to be scanned first and then go beyond that into the areas where they may not have... And they are physically located in New York?
In New York.
Now this area back here is media development.
This is Charles Massey's group.
These are the folks that are actually building the archive.
And the general editors along the wall here
Their job is to go out and identify collections and partners, and they go out and work with photographers and museums, libraries, and public and private collections, and develop relationships.
Once we get an agreement in place with a source provider for the archive, then the picture editors who are in the center here actually go in and work on the selections.
Now, the agreements that we have with our sources are generally very long-term because we want to develop
ongoing partnerships and relationships.
And we work to a very strict editing criteria.
So if we work with a photographer who has, say, two or three hundred thousand images in their collection, we may only partner with them for three or four thousand today.
But then we want the ability to continue to work with them, and both as they develop new photography and also as market drives demand, we can continue to work with them to get those images in digital form.
You used a very interesting phrase
back in your office, non-exclusive rights.
Yeah, primarily non-exclusive agreements are what we do.
So therefore, you know, the picture of Winston Churchill would be for victory.
I mean, it's possible to get that picture from other sources then, or is that how it might be?
I don't know where that one came from, but that's the idea.
A photographer that partners with us on a non-exclusive basis, we work with them to determine which images we want to digitize and put into the Corbis archive.
The photographer is free to take those exact same images that we selected and sell them directly, sell them to other agencies, sell them to other digital agencies if they wish.
It's truly non-exclusive.
So we are a channel to market for that material.
And the way that we're different from a stock agency is that we don't agent an entire photographer.
We agent selected material from that photographer and from this one and from this one.
So we're not really agenting entire collections.
We're agenting selections.
And these are largely one-time use agreements, I would imagine.
That's what we've seen with the professional licensing side of the business.
That's what we normally grant is a one-time use for a specific time period in a specific product for a specific fee.
And then if you want to make a different use,
negotiate a new fee based on that.
And that all kicks back a royalty to the original source.
It's a very elegant and simple kind of a setup, and it allows us to build a very broad collection that's very, very tightly edited, because we're working with each photographer to determine which of their material is best suited for this archive.
And we're doing that across many, many sources.
You don't end up with a lot of material that's not interesting or not usable.
You're getting really high-quality material.
And I would imagine that, obviously, for wonders of computers, you're able to maintain a base of, you know, frequency of use.
Absolutely.
Of images.
And we're never out.
And one of the other advantages over a stock agency is that we're never out.
If a stock photo agency sends a print to one client,
They can't send it to another client who might want it.
But with a digital image, we're never out.
We can send it to you and you and you and you, and you can all look at it at the same time and you decide what you want to do.
So you're not running into some of the same problems you have.
You also don't have the insurance liability of film and transparencies.
When you license a transparency from someone and it's in your possession, if you damage it or lose it, they're usually insured for a good chunk of change.
With a digital file, you can't hurt it.
You can't lose it.
You can't damage it.
So you don't have to worry about those kinds of issues.
So there's some benefits to digital that aren't necessarily obvious on the first block.
Now these editors work very closely with the sources.
We will either send an editor on site to do the selecting, or sometimes the source will do a first cut and send that material here, and then we'll edit from that.
Could they be at home?
similar to what I'm known in the publishing business.
There's acquisitions, editors, kinds of issues.
Well, we call them just picture editors.
But their function is to go out and find suitable material.
Right.
I mean, they're developing collections.
We call them media development.
So there's still a place for going out into the real world.
Oh, yeah.
It's not all done from here, is it?
No, the general editors are very involved in the photography community, in the museum community.
You know, they're all the time taking calls from people who want to work with us as well as going out and looking and, you know, identifying.
We have very much a structure for what we want in the archive, and Charles Mousy will tell you much more about that kind of plan.
When you're talking about something of the scope, you've got to go about it sensibly.
You can't just go out and say we want, you know, to document the world.
What we've kind of done is similar to taking an encyclopedia and knocking out all the text so that you're left with headings and subheadings.
And then we're filling that with images.
We're trying to represent, encyclopedic in scope, kind of the human experience.
And we're doing that across the world.
So there is a map and a plan, and we have to prioritize.
And so there's some logic to doing it that Charles can really explain, I think.
So once the picture editors have done their selection, then this side of the room is our media catalog.
And this is really...
Of all the things that we do here at Corbison, this is the most fundamental and the most important.
This is the thing that we have done very differently from anyone else.
Every image that goes in the archive has extensive captioning and keywording attached to a lot of data.
We've done years of research into search and navigation software.
Because anybody these days can go out and buy a scanner and scan millions of images real quickly.
Not a problem.
But if you can't find the one you want,
and you can't find it quickly and get it into a client's hand.
No asset.
So we've done a lot of thinking about how do you index an archive of this size and this breadth and make it accessible, and accessible for markets that we don't know yet.
So accessible from everyone, from the person in their home to the professional user, who are all going to approach how they want to organize material in a very different way.
So we've had to develop very flexible systems for indexing and cataloging that will service all those markets.
It's something that a lot of people have expressed interest in, but we're not really in the business of developing tools and selling them.
This was a tool that we developed to help us manage this collection.
It's not something we're interested in marketing because then you have all the support issues and the upgrade issues, and it's a very different skill set than what we have here.
This group is the largest devotion of headcount in the company.
It's also our largest area of investment.
What do you mean by explain that?
The largest headcount.
There's more people in this department than in any other department.
And that would be how many approximately?
I don't know all told.
This group here is over 32 or 33 people in Bellevue.
There's also cataloging going on in our other locations.
I'm not sure what the total is.
But it's definitely much larger than any other single group here at Corbis because this is really fundamental to what we do.
We work with the sources, the museum curators and the photographers, to get data and captioning.
We also do a lot of our own research.
So we spend a great deal of time with each image making sure that we've captioned it carefully.
We have a person in-house that's devoted to building a thesaurus and a controlled vocabulary that we use.
We looked at existing academic standards for indexing, and we took it to the next level for multimedia.
And we've really worked at trying to make that unique.
And it's something very important for us.
We have people here, many of them are PhD candidates in library science and social science.
You're just reading my mind, and I was asking what their background is.
Oh, they're very, very diverse.
We have advanced degrees in history and art history and science.
You absolutely anticipated my next question.
I was wondering if they're all computer people or they have scholarly baggage.
That's what is so funny, because so many people perceive Corvus as a technology company.
If Bill owns it, it's got to be a technology company.
Less than 10% of our staff is what you would truly consider...
technology like C++ and Visual Basic programmers, less than 10% of the total staff.
The bulk of it is in people with, you know, these advanced degrees and different specialties, photography backgrounds, you know, fine arts and liberal arts backgrounds, marketing, the creative side, design, and in the product development side, there's a lot of, you know, film backgrounds and design backgrounds, and it's a very different skill set than people would get knowing about the company.
So who puts together the team?
Each department manager, I mean Charles certainly fills out his media development team.
Curtis was instrumental in building the product team.
So there's, these guys look very carefully.
You've got a lot more floor space than each of you guys.
Oh, it's a warrant.
It has all these little corridors.
Reminds me of my old aircraft carrier, which is over in Blemerton, I think, and those mothballs.
I actually personally think it's very inefficient use of space.
I think we could do a lot better than what we've done here.
This is our English processing lab.
We'll start you over here.
Okay.
This is probably the most high-tech area that you'll see in the company.
There are scanning labs here.
We have six scanners.
We use primarily Scitex equipment.
They're a very high-end scanning equipment operator.
We are one of the few sites, I think, in the world that has as many Scitexes as we do.
We've got six in this room.
How do you spell Scitex?
S-C-I-T-E-X.
That's one of the constant struggles.
That's why it's so cool in here.
It's keeping dust off of the film as we scan it.
Psytex is an Israeli based company.
They are best known for equipment they've done in the print pre-press world and we're one of their first partners in
all digital processing.
They've done some amazing work with these scanners.
We get a very high-quality file at a very good throughput rate, so we're able to scan a goodly amount of material here.
We scan all formats, everything from 35mm to 2x2s, 4x5s, up to odd-sized prints.
We've had things like glass plate negatives that we've then had to go to transparency film.
We deal with all kinds of formats.
These operators have a lot of print prepress and photography and color management backgrounds.
Each scanner, they'll load up the scanners.
So that's the scanner right there, right?
There's a cartridge that goes in.
These are the cartridges that are loaded into the scanners.
Depending on the size of what sort of film we're using, you'll load it up appropriately.
This would be for 35 millimeters.
We have little sleeves that'll work for many sizes.
you load those into the scanners here and then it'll go through and do a pre-scan and bring up
You know, the initial image.
They're also attached to flatbeds, so if you do have an oversized print or something, you can use the flatbeds.
If you don't mind, may I take a couple of shots?
Have you ever taken any of those slides?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, we do have some.
Yeah, it's good.
They're professional.
Why don't you take a lot of them if they don't know where you come back?
No, that's good.
You know, these are just important when I'm coming to writing.
If there's any real obvious
cast to the image or color cast to the image or color cast to the image or color cast to the image.
So what they do on this side, then, is they get the original, put it on a light box, pull up the digital file, and they do an optical correct.
They'll remove any dust that's been put in during the scanning process and the scanning cloud.
And they'll correct this screen image to look as close as possible to the original.
Now, that screen image is saved, optimized, and that becomes almost your digital proof.
that's the one that has the color that's optimized.
The large raw file is saved untouched so that if you are a book publisher and your printer has a particular way of doing color, we'll give you the raw file that has the most data possible and then we'll give you the color proof that shows you what
what the original looked like, and then your printer determines how to best map that.
And at what point does it go to file?
Does an individual pass on it?
Yeah, well, these individual processors, that's their job is to do the quality control.
They have a lot of, again, prepress background photography and color management background.
They'll save that screen image, which is the 1024 or thereabouts, to the servers, and that's what we all can access from our devcast.
1024, that's where I've gotten right to see, but believe me or not.
Yeah, pretty close.
And that's also what our clients do when we send out preview images for them to look.
You know, they've got either 640 by 480 or thereabouts or the 1024.
That's what our clients will see.
The raw files are saved back to a combination of magnetic and digital tape.
We make three copies of each image.
One goes off-site into a fire-safe area, one goes to our London office, and then one is kept here for retrieval.
So they are archival copies, so to speak.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, and there's a version in London and a version here and a version off-site.
We're backed up to the 9th.
Plus there's redundant systems throughout for this.
So a major computer crash isn't going to destroy the whole... No, no.
That would be foolishness to allow something like that.
And the thing is, too, that these digital files...
Even just those, the 800,000 or so that are at screen resolution, we're getting up into terabytes of data.
If you look at the large raw files that are anywhere from 20 to 35 megabytes per image,
There are no server systems at this point that could manage that kind of data quickly over an Internet.
So we're working, one of the areas we're still doing a lot of our research and development in is in image management.
How do you take large files, not lose any data through compression, and still get them moving very quickly around?
Just to give me an idea of what he's doing here now, this image is coming, where is that coming from?
This image is scanned.
This is coming off the server because these are,
These are called brick hard drives.
This is a one gigabyte drive.
When the scanners do the scan, they load the images on here.
These come over here for optimizing and quality control, and then they're loaded onto materials.
So this image is this one here, and they'll crop out the image mount if the image mount shows, so we'll move any dust if there's dust.
See, actually, that's just a digital picture of the whole
The whole unit, the whole... It's a digital picture of this slide.
Yeah, but this other stuff on the outside, isn't that... That's just the viewer.
I'm saying it took the whole viewer, and he's going to have to edit out this.
the superfluous stuff going around.
Right, because you can see the rough edge.
That's actually the cardboard image mount that was scanned.
Will he be able to correct that digitally?
Yeah, he'll crop that out.
He'll make sure that the image is clean and there's no dust because no matter how we try and fight dust in here, there's always something.
What if there's a scratch on the original negative?
If there's a scratch or something, they can fix that.
We're very cautious about trying to change the image.
What we're trying to do is represent that photograph as best as possible.
For instance, we have Matthew Brady's Civil War photos.
You're anticipating where I'm going.
Those brown spots are part of the character.
We wouldn't remove those.
We wouldn't try and pretty it up.
Now, if it's a scratch in the film of something like this, we can do that.
We have often worked with the source.
the photographer or the curator to determine, is this something that was a spot on the film or is this something that was a spot on the original?
And we work very closely with that.
We're not in the business of trying to alter the image.
We're trying to make it look as close as possible to the photograph.
Now, thinking in terms of Ansel Adams, who I interviewed, by the way, years ago in 1979, had wonderful...
regard for him.
He made all of his own prints.
Everyone was different from, they were unique, basically.
And those prints were very different from the original negative.
That's correct.
So what are you digitizing?
A standard print off the negative, off the negative?
We're working very closely with the truck.
I don't know, if you interviewed Ansel Adams, did you talk with Andrea Stillman?
No, I didn't.
This was about 79 when I did this.
Andrea was his darkroom assistant, a very close friend, and she's working with us.
She's the Ansel Adams Trust.
I know who she is.
Image specialist.
She's come here a number of times, and we're working with her.
We're scanning off of print.
Made by whom?
I believe they're made by Ansel.
Okay.
We're working directly with the Trust to get the best quality scans.
Print's made by Ansel, which is very important because he was his own darkroom man.
Right, right.
Well, he had help.
I mean, Andrea was one of his assistants in the darkroom and worked with him.
So she's working very closely with us to make sure that we get the patient.
That's a very interesting question, isn't it?
Curtis is another one to talk to about Ansel.
He's worked very closely with the Trust.
We're actually working on a CD-ROM of Ansel's life for 1997, and that was Curtis's project.
He was very involved in that.
So we take great care with it.
One of the things that we have to do is maintain the integrity of the image.
We're representing this material on behalf of the museums and the photographers, and we need to recognize that a photograph often
reflects reality only to the extent a photographer wished it to.
Many photographers have a style about the photography.
We don't want to change that.
We want to capture that.
So if a photographer, you know, has done something with the color and the producing of their print, you know, we try and capture that as well.
That especially applies to somebody like Ansel.
Of course.
Because the original image was just the beginning.
Exactly.
He actually made an analogy that Curtis might mention too that I think is wonderful, where the negative...
was really the score, as if it were music.
That's the actual score to the music.
The print was the performance.
The score is interpreted through the performance.
That's excellent.
His theory was visualization, to really visualize precisely what it looked like.
That's why he shot very few... Exactly.
He didn't shoot 100 shots to get one.
Yeah, he would wait all day to get the one.
To get the one.
the way he wanted it.
He's a wonderful photographer.
This is our technology group here.
This is the area of the company where we are still very involved in research and development.
As I said, this is a relatively small group proportionally to the other division.
They're doing a lot of work in advanced imaging techniques, image management, like moving lots of data very quickly, image protection, things like encryption and watermarking, and how do we make sure the material is secure on the net.
Things like search and navigation software and how do you get a software that can search through millions of images very quickly and get the ones you want.
So there's a lot of really bright minds here doing a lot of research into those areas as well as helping us build our products and our website and do some of the nuts and bolts technology development.
If you in fact have some professional shot photographs that I can have and I can leave my camera in your office when we get there.
I use them to help me to recall scenes and how they looked and a lot of my images.
This is getting into our accounting, finance, human resources, all the administrative stuff.
Oh, I can see this workforce now.
I didn't see it when I was sitting in your office.
It wasn't apparent.
With a company of its size, we've got to have HR people and accountants.
We've got revenues coming in from both the businesses.
We have contracts going in and out.
This is getting into legal here.
We have three attorneys on staff.
One of them is kind of more towards the inbound contract agreements with our source partners.
One is more focused on the outbound licensing agreements with our clients.
And then one of them is Steve Davis, who's our VP of Strategic and Legal Affairs, and he doesn't really function as much as an attorney, as just kind of overseeing the group.
We speak internationally on issues around digital copyright and how
how this digital medium is affecting the rights of the creative producers.
We're uniquely positioned because on the one hand, we're working very closely with the creative community, the photographers and the museums.
On the other hand, we're also working closely with business communities and publishers.
And we're able to kind of inform the debate a little bit and help people understand what the technology can do and also what it can't do.
are legitimate risks, and the things that are just kind of fear the unknown hype sort of thing.
So we're really, I think, uniquely positioned in that regard.
So really we walk in a big circle with what we do.
I know.
Okay.
We're just doing this for ourselves.
I'm just going to drop this hammer in here.
Excuse me.
I just want to dump this over here.
I guess I got a voicemail from AMH that they were madly trying to hunt you down earlier today.
This is our product development group, which actually when you meet with Curtis, maybe we'll go down at that point so we can see some of the products.
A big donut.
I like that.
Hi, Charles.
Pleasure to meet you.
Thank you for seeing us.